Fixes #28385 (#29925)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/keywords/init.md

---
# init (C# Reference)

> In C# 9 and later, the `init` keyword defines an *accessor* method in a property or indexer. An init-only setter assigns a value to the property or the indexer element **only** during object construction. This is useful as a kind of runtime constant, so that it can only be set once in the constructor, and never be changed again.

Reviewer: I would change the wording for consistency:

```suggestion
In C# 9 and later, the `init` keyword defines an *accessor* method in a property or indexer. An init-only setter assigns a value to the property or the indexer element **only** during object construction. This enforces immutability, so  that once the object is initialized, it can't be changed again.
```

For more information and examples, see [Properties](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/properties.md), [Auto-Implemented Properties](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/auto-implemented-properties.md), and [Indexers](../../programming-guide/indexers/index.md).

The following example defines both a `get` and an `init` accessor for a property named `Seconds`. It uses a private field named `_seconds` to back the property value.

[!code-csharp[init#1](snippets/InitExample1.cs)]

Often, the `init` accessor consists of a single statement that assigns a value, as it did in the previous example. Note that, because of `init`, the following will **not** work:

> ```csharp

Reviewer: add blank line:

```suggestion

```csharp
```

var john = new Person_InitExample
{
    YearOfBirth = 1984
};

john.YearOfBirth = 1926; //Not allowed, as it's value can only be set once in the constructor
```

The `init` accessor can be used as an expression-bodied member. Example:

[!code-csharp[init#3](snippets/InitExample3.cs)]
  

> The `init` accessor can also be used in auto-implemented properties. Example:

Reviewer: formatting:

```suggestion
The `init` accessor can also be used in auto-implemented properties as the following example code demonstrates:
```
